Add documentation for user procedure memory resource tracking (#221)
neo4j/docs-java-reference: modules/ROOT/pages/extending-neo4j/procedures.adoc

Reviewer: Is this available to functions as well? or only procedures?

Author: Good point, it's available to functions and aggregation functions too.

Author: Updated the text to include functions.

* `Transaction`
//* `SecurityContext`
//* `ProcedureTransaction`
//* `ProcedureMemory` Candidate for public API but not stable yet

All of the above classes are considered safe and future-proof and do not compromise the security of the database.
Several unsupported (restricted) classes can also be injected and can be changed with little or no notice.
Procedures written to use these restricted APIs are not loaded by default, and you need to use the `dbms.security.procedures.unrestricted` to load unsafe procedures.
Read more about this config setting in link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/security/securing-extensions[Operations Manual -> Securing extensions].

[[memory-resource-tracking]]
== Memory Resource Tracking

[NOTE]
====
The memory resource tracking API for the procedure framework is available for preview.
Future versions of Neo4j might contain breaking changes to this API.
====

> If your procedure or function allocates significant amounts of heap memory, you can register allocations to count towards the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/performance/memory-configuration/#memory-configuration-limit-transaction-memory[configured transaction limits].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your procedure or function allocates significant amounts of heap memory, you can register allocations to count towards the configured transaction limits, see link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/performance/memory-configuration/#memory-configuration-limit-transaction-memory[Operations Manual -> Limit transaction memory usage] for more information.
```
We try to make it obvious when linking across manuals that something belongs to a different manual. But not a huge deal if you need the brevity.

This allows you to avoid `OutOfMemory` errors that cause database restarts.
Memory allocations also show up in query profiles.

To do this you need to inject `org.neo4j.procedure.memory.ProcedureMemory` as a field in your procedure/function class.
`ProcedureMemory` has various methods to allow you to register allocations.
For example (see javadocs for a full reference):

* `ProcedureMemoryTracker newTracker()` creates a new memory resource tracker that is bound to the current transaction.
* `HeapEstimator heapEstimator()` estimates the heap size of classes and instances.

> * `HeapTrackingCollectionFactory collections()`  lets you create collections that have built-in memory tracking of their internal structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `HeapTrackingCollectionFactory collections()` lets you create collections that have built-in memory tracking of their internal structure.
```

It's usually difficult and time-consuming to implement memory resource tracking.
These are a few considerations and caveats that are worth keeping in mind:

- Limit the scope of the memory management.
  Focus only on parts that can grow significantly in memory and ignore minor underestimation.
- Beware of overestimation by registering allocations of the same instance multiple times.

>   You can add reference counting or other mechanisms to avoid overestimation if that is an issue for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You can add reference counting or other mechanisms to avoid overestimation if that is a concern.
```

> - It's common to not know the size of an instance before it has been allocated.
>   This makes you register allocations after they have already been made.
>   The memory tracker implementation tries to prevent this by always pre-registering a certain amount of memory in the internal memory pools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It's common not to know the size of an instance before it has been allocated, which may lead you to register allocations after they have already been made.
  The memory tracker implementation tries to prevent this by always pre-registering a certain amount of memory in the internal memory pools.
```

* `Transaction`
//* `SecurityContext`
//* `ProcedureTransaction`
//* `ProcedureMemory` Candidate for public API but not stable yet

All of the above classes are considered safe and future-proof and do not compromise the security of the database.
Several unsupported (restricted) classes can also be injected and can be changed with little or no notice.
Procedures written to use these restricted APIs are not loaded by default, and you need to use the `dbms.security.procedures.unrestricted` to load unsafe procedures.
Read more about this config setting in link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/security/securing-extensions[Operations Manual -> Securing extensions].

[[memory-resource-tracking]]
== Memory Resource Tracking

[NOTE]
====

> The memory resource tracking API for procedure framework is available for preview.
> Future versions of neo4j might contain breaking changes to this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The memory resource tracking API for the procedure framework is available for preview.
Future versions of Neo4j might contain breaking changes to this API.
```

====

If your procedure allocates significant amounts of heap memory,
you can register allocations to count towards the
link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/performance/memory-configuration/#memory-configuration-limit-transaction-memory[configured transaction limits].
This allows you to avoid `OutOfMemory` errors that cause database restarts.
Memory allocations will also show up in query profiles.

> To do this you need to inject a `org.neo4j.procedure.memory.ProcedureMemory` as a field in your procedure class.
> `ProcedureMemory` has various methods to allow you to register allocations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this you need to inject `org.neo4j.procedure.memory.ProcedureMemory` as a field in your procedure class.
`ProcedureMemory` has various methods to allow you to register allocations.
```

> For example (see javadocs for a full reference):

Author: Unfortunately it's not possible to link to the java docs until this has become public API, but I'll try to remember to insert a link in here then.

* `ProcedureMemoryTracker newTracker()`,
  creates a new memory resource tracker that is bound to the current transaction.
* `HeapEstimator heapEstimator()`,
  used to estimate the heap size of classes and instances.
* `HeapTrackingCollectionFactory collections()`,

>   lets you create collections that have build-in memory tracking of their internal structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  lets you create collections that have built-in memory tracking of their internal structure.
```

It's usually difficult and time-consuming to implement memory resource tracking.

> Here's a few considerations and caveats that are worth keeping in mind:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are a few considerations and caveats that are worth keeping in mind:
```

- Limit the scope of the memory management.
  Focus only on parts that can grow significantly in memory, and ignore minor underestimation.
- Beware of overestimation by registering allocations of the same instance multiple times.
  It's up to you to add reference counting or other mechanisms to avoid this if it's an issue for you.
- It's common to not know the size of an instance before it has been allocated.
  This makes you register allocations after they have already been made.

>   The memory tracker implementation try to guard against this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The memory tracker implementation tries to guard against this
```

>   The memory tracker implementation try to guard against this
>   by always pre-registering a certain amount of memory in the internal memory pools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The memory tracker implementation tries to prevent this by always pre-registering a certain amount of memory in the internal memory pools.
```

- It's cumbersome in Java to know when an instance has been garbage collected.

>   Typically, you will register the release of memory at the point when it's possible for that memory to be garbage collected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Typically, you register the release of memory at the point when it's possible for that memory to be garbage-collected.
```

  To account for this, memory trackers might internally choose not to register the release of memory instantaneously.
- Testing memory resource tracking is hard.

>   One approach is to use a third party library, like jamm (Java Agent for Memory Measurements),

Reviewer: Should jamm be JAMM if it is ann acronym?

Author: Perhaps it should be "Jamm", since its a name and that's how they write it themselves.

>   One approach is to use a third party library, like jamm (Java Agent for Memory Measurements),
>   and assert that the estimates are close enough for some given input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  One approach is to use a third-party library, like JAMM(Java Agent for Memory Measurements), and assert that the estimates are close enough for some given input.
```
